---
layout: post
title: "New Neighbors"
date: 2014-03-10 21:44:44 -0500
comments: true
categories: 
---
I was nine, so the year is 1981. We had recently moved to downtown Winston-Salem from the suburbs, which in the 80s wasn't something families really did; the downtown area was on its way to a slow and painful death (which it did eventually do, and then come back to life, as many downtowns have). My brother and I didn't have any friends. We didn't have any real friends in the suburbs, either, but at least there were kids in our neighborhood…downtown Winston was mostly a wasteland. 

But my dad had taken a chance on the idea that this area was going to be revitalized, and soon, and got an amazing deal on an enormous Victorian-style home. It really was a beautiful home, the one that I envision most when I think of the favorite places I've lived in my life. We had to do a lot of work on it, but! it was worth it. 

The Pollens, from Dundrum, Ireland (a suburb of Dublin), had the same idea that Dad did: buy a house for cheap in a sketchy neighborhood, fix it up, sell it for bank in the future. But Patrick Pollen didn't just move from across town; he moved across the world hoping to make a killing as a stained glass artist. How and why he found Winston-Salem to be the place to land I don't know, but his choice did change my life. 

Evan and I were playing outside and were summoned by our mother to meet the new neighbors. I'll never forget the first sight of them: five kids lined up in their front yard, in order of tallest to shortest, to say 'hello'. Peter, Ciaran, Lawrence, Bridget (Brid) and Christopher. Three teenagers, already. Two with jet black hair and the rest with bright red. All the palest people we had ever seen. With weird accents. And their father kept getting into the wrong side of his car. 

Christopher - Chris - became our only friend. Reluctantly, I think. But when there isn't anywhere else to go, you make do. We played board games, destroyed our share of G.I. Joes, set fire to worms with magnifying glasses - little boy things. Chris's house was completely different from ours. Mom and Dad were fairly focused people, and renovations to our home happened quickly and efficiently, but Chris's dad had all the best intentions and none of the motivation. The entire home had a run-down and musty feel to it; there were holes in floors that Patrick never got around to fixing, most appliances seemed on the fritz. But there were five children running around all the time, so it was lively. We loved living across the street from the Pollens…the three oldest boys were our baby-sitters and Brid was a beautiful girl to crush on from afar. But Christopher was the one that became a big part of my life. 

As we got closer to being teens, we grew apart. Chris went to the Catholic school and had those friends while I descended fully into Nerd-dom and went through a severe Ugly Duckling phase in public school. We'd see each other every once and a while, though, just to sort of "check-in" on the personal developments were were going through individually and compare notes. We had both gotten into music. I was a clarinet player, and Chris had taken up the classical guitar. With something new to talk about besides action figures, we became pals again. 

We both were accepted to the North Carolina School of the Arts as music students in high school. This was an enormous turning point for both of us. There I found a place where I fit in, where everyone was a nerd and different and proud of it. NCSA was an exciting and chaotic and intense time. You learn to work hard, there, and you learn to work at being an artist. But since the school has an enormous age span of students (middle school to graduate programs) you are bombarded by all manner of life experiences all at once. Christopher went crazy. 